Hello, everyone.
In this lesson, we are going to finish our example API, so at the end of our previous video, we had
successfully set up our API slash create post wrapped.
Well, now let's set up a route that would let a user delete one of their existing posts.
So do this with me within our actual Web application.
Find a post that you would want to delete.
So in my case, from the Brad profile, I would want to delete this newest post through the API.
So if I click on it to view that individual post and then I would want you to grab the ID for this post,
which is the final segment of this, you are out.
So just go ahead and copy the idea of a post that you want to delete into your clipboard.
OK, and then back in Postman, let's adjust the euro.
So it would still be slash API and then let's say slash post slash and then paste in the idea that you'd
want to delete.
Now you might be saying, hey, where is the word delete in this route?
Well, check this out to the left.
We can choose the type of request now.
Yes.
Within the context of a traditional HTML form, there are only options of git in post.
But if you're sending requests programmatically through front end JavaScript or through another languages
syntax, there are additional types of requests.
And here we see that one of the types is delete.
So select that.
So now we are sending a delete http request to slash API slash post and then the idea of the post.
OK, now click on the body tab and then make sure RAW is selected.
And in terms of the JSON that we want to send over, we no longer need title or body.
We only need one property named Token.
And at some point in the previous lesson I adjusted the token to be wrong or invalid on purpose.
Right.
Just so we can test to make sure that the server would indeed send back.
Sorry, you must provide a valid token.
If you did the same thing, just make sure you paste back in your valid real token, or if you need
to generate a new token, just send a new request to slash API slash login.
Anyways, I'm copying and pasting my token that I still had in this text editor file.
So let me paste back in the correct token.
Cool.
Now, obviously, if I sent this request, it would not work because we have not set up this route yet.
So let's go do that within our text editor within the route of your project, jump into Rueter Dash
API J.S..
OK, right below this route, let's just set up a new one.
So API router and instead of doGet or post, let's say dot delete.
Right.
If someone sends a delete request two quotes, slash post slash and then it would be colon.
I'd OK after the quotes, let's say comma and let's begin by calling our API must be logged in function.
So user controller let me hide the sidebar so there's a bit more room user controller dot api must be
logged in comma and then finally we'd want to call post controller and this function doesn't exist yet
but let's say dot api uppercase D for delete.
OK, let's save this file and now we better go jump in post controller and create this function.
So within your controllers folder jump into post control Airgas within our post controller.
Let's save a bit of typing by finding our existing delete function.
So for me it's around line number seventy nine is the line that begins with exports.
Dot delete equals.
So I would just copy and paste this entire function right below it, create the pasted duplicate copy
and change the name of this copy to API uppercase delete.
OK, and then let's just adjust this to not be tightly coupled to the web browser experience.
So we'd still want to work with our post model and use its delete method and we'd still want the first
argument to be the ID parameter from the URL.
But we do need to change this second argument.
Right.
This is the idea of the current user that's making the request.
So instead of requesting visitor ID, we can actually keep the RFQ dot.
So just get rid of visitor ID and instead say API user dot underscore ID.
Right, because our API must be logged in.
Function will make this available.
OK, now you might be starting to see the true benefits of the MVC pattern are.
Models delete method is going to take care of all of the validation checks and permission checks and
business logic.
So if this user is the owner of this post and the delete goes through successfully, then R then function
would run.
So let's get rid of these requests, flash and sessions, save lines.
So just delete these two lines.
And instead, maybe just respond to Jason and say success, but if the user is not the owner of this
requested post, then our catch function will run.
So let's get rid of these two lines.
And instead we can just say response that Jason, bit of text.
You do not have permission to perform that action.
OK, let's go ahead and save this and test it out.
So back in our Web application, maybe I'll go back to the Brad profile, OK?
And now through Postman, I'm going to try to delete this post.
Let's see if it works.
So in Postman, everything's good to go.
We've got our token.
We're sending it to this room.
Let's go ahead and click send.
If I scroll down to the bottom, we see success cool, so back in the browser, I'm assuming if I refresh
that post is gone.
Perfect.
Now let's perform a quick test to make sure that I'm not allowed to delete someone else's post.
So maybe if I go to a different profile, like the bark's a lot profile and maybe if I click on this,
being a dog is fun.
Post and grab the I.D. So to follow along with me, if you have multiple users, just grab the idea
of a post where you are not the author of the post, or I should say, whichever user account you use
to log in to get your JSON Web token, grab an idea of a post from a different user.
So copy that back in Postman.
If I try to delete this post, it should not work.
So up in the address bar if I paste in that new ID and then click send.
I scroll down perfect.
You do not have permission to perform that action at this point.
Let's change gears.
So we've completed all of our example API routes that rely on logging in and authenticating or identifying
requests.
Now, let's focus on a request that should work no matter who you are.
Right?
A request that should just be publicly available to anyone.
So remember, the posts on our site are all public.
So let's set up a new goal for our API.
Let's change the type of request to a get request.
Right.
If someone wants to get data and then let's change the route to be this slash API slash posts by author
Slash and then the author's name.
So in this case, I will say, Brad, but you can include your username and then you can imagine we
would want the server to respond with Jason or I should say an array of objects where each object is
a post.
So let's make that happen.
Back in your text editor, jump into Rouda Dash API, JS below these routes.
Let's just create a new one.
So API router dot git and then quotes if someone sends a request to the API is assumed and then slash
posts by author Slash and then Colen username after the quote, let's include a comma and then the function
that we would want to run would be well if we were building out 100 percent of our functionality in
the API, I would take the extra time to be super organised and maybe create different functions.
And so I would have one that would be user controller dot API.
Does user exist and then if it does, that would call the next function for this route.
And then finally I would have one called post controller dot API get posts by user.
But we're not recreating our application 100 percent in depth through the API.
So just for a quick example, and since our user controller already loads both our post model and user
model, let's just do this.
Let's say user controller DOT.
This function doesn't exist yet, but we can create it in just a moment.
Let's say API get posts by username.
OK, let's go ahead and save this file and now go into user controller and create this function.
So within our controllers folder I would jump into user controller.
We can create this function anywhere within this file, so I'll just scroll up to the very top, let's
create a new line.
Let's say exports dot API, get posts by username that set that to equal a function and give it parameters
of request and response within the body of this function.
Let's set up try and catch blocks to try her the brackets after that catch curly brackets within the
tribe.
OK, let's do this.
Let's say let author dock equal and then I would want to await a promise.
Now, if we're going to use a wait, we want to be sure that this is an async function.
So right before the word function here, let's say a sink.
OK, and what do I want to await?
Well, I would just use our user model and you can see VTS code is reading my mind.
We already have a method on the user model named find by username.
So user defined by username parentheses, call it within these parentheses.
Let's just pull the username from the current U.
RL request.
So that's request dot forams dot username.
Now if the requested username is a bit of malicious code, that doesn't look like a simple string of
text, or if it's a name that doesn't exist in our database, this promise is going to reject.
Right.
In that case, our catch block would run.
So in the sketch area, let's just say response JSON sorry, invalid user requested.
OK, but if this does successfully find a user with that username, then right below that, still within
the tribe block, I would say let posts equal and then I would await a promise, the promise that I
want to await lives within our post model and the name of the method that's going to return.
The promise is fine by author Idy parentheses to call that and then we can just grab the user ID from
our author Doch Object.
So author Dog Dot underscore idee.
OK, so that's going to return an array of posts by that author and we're storing that in this post
variable.
So that new line, that's what I would want to send back as in my response.
So response JSON within the parentheses to say posts.
Let's go ahead and save this and test it out in Postman.
So make sure that it's a get request to slash API slash posts by author slash and then a username.
In this case, we don't need anything in this data.
You don't need to include JSON or tokens.
You can completely clear that out or actually just click this nun option under the body tab and lets
click send cool down here.
We can see the response.
So opening square bracket, it's an array.
Here's an object.
So the title of this post is Innocent Post.
If I scroll down, the next title is CSFs is Great.
You get the idea and if we change this to Bachs a lot.
Right.
If I want to get posts by the Bachs a lot user send a new request.
Cool.
We see an array of posts when the poor barks a lot user got hacked by the RF attack and then also being
a dog is fun.
Cool, but our job is not done yet.
So yes, this route is working within Postman, but there's something named Cause or Congress that is
preventing this from working in Web browsers or I should say in Web browsers.
When you're on a domain other than our localhost call in three thousand.
Let me show you what I mean.
And I promise this is the last section of this lesson.
So in your Web browser, open up a new tab and go to code pen.
Go ahead and create a brand new empty pen.
OK, and within the JavaScript column, click the gear or setting icon near the jazz title.
And here we see add external scripts and there's a search bar.
Just begin searching for Axios concedes the first result.
Go ahead and click on Axios and then we can close this pop up.
OK, and in the JavaScript tab, let me make that a bit wider and let's give ourselves the goal of sending
off an axios request to our server to fetch posts by a certain author.
So we would start with the Axios package and then call its git method.
And then after that we would include dot then and dot catch.
Now, within the git parentheses, we include a u r l so quotes and then we can actually just copy and
paste the URL from postman write http localhost get post by author.
So copy that and then.
Back in code, pen paste that in for the get quotes and then let's provide functions for both then and
catch.
So in the then parentheses, function, parentheses, curly brackets do the same thing for catch function,
parentheses, curly brackets within the catch function parentheses.
Let's say e for error or I should say e r and then within the body of that function we could just say
console log e r within our then function within these parentheses let's say response and then in the
body of the then function, let's say console dialog and then let's look inside the response for its
data.
So response dot data.
OK, now let's check the console and see what's happening.
So down in the preview area if I right.
Click and choose inspect that opens my dev tools and then if I click on the console link how we have
errors and notice those letters I just mentioned Cause or SEO.
So this is an acronym that stands for Cross Origin Resource Sharing.
So Web browsers will not send off asynchronous requests to other domains unless that other domain explicitly
says that it's OK to do so.
So in this case, since we want our API to be available to everyone and we would want users to be able
to access it from code pen or any other domain, here's what we need to do.
Jump into your text editor or command line.
Your app is most likely running, so go ahead and press control, see to stop it.
And we want to install an NPM package.
So run this command with me, NPM install.
And the name of the package that we're interested in is Cause or SEO are s go ahead and press enter.
Now that we have that package, let's tell our server to begin running again.
So npm run watch.
OK, and now let's go use that package.
So here's what we need to do.
Go into your router API JS file and up at the top where we are requiring in different files, let's
just add a line and say const cause equals and then require in the course package.
And then right below this we want to use the course package on all of our API router routes.
So I would just say API router use and this will be applied to any routes listed below this line.
So let's just call cause this will configure all of our routes that are listed below this to set the
cross origin resource sharing policy so that it is allowed from any domain.
Let's go ahead and save this.
And now if we jump back into code pen and maybe down at the bottom, just add a comment to trigger a
refresh of our JavaScript.
And now if we look at the console, cool.
The most recent console message is an array with two posts or I should say two objects.
Cool.
We see the IDs of the post and we see the titles.
At this point, it's up to the world to use our API in an interesting way in the real world.
Back in our Web application, maybe in the footer somewhere, we would have a link to our documentation
for the API, right?
So that way developers could read the documentation and we would list the different routes and what
we expect in terms of properties and how our token system works, so on and so forth.
But the idea is that any developer that reads our documentation, as long as they're working in an environment
that can send an HTTP request and every modern environment can do that.
Right, iOS, Android, Windows, Mac, Linux, then they are free to use our API however they see fit.
And now that we've walked through the few examples of our login Tolkan route and our create post and
delete post and get post by all the routes, you now have everything you need to take an API as far
as you want to take it.
And that's going to bring this lesson to a close.
In our next lesson, we are finally ready to push this application up onto the Web.
Completing and launching our complex app is going to be a huge milestone and definitely one that I think
is worth celebrating.
So this should be a lot of fun.
Let's keep things rolling and I will see you in the next lesson.